Dominoes. Quick starter. The First Flying Man. by Elspeth Roestron.
Red by Ben Elliott, Wayne Forrester, Roger May, and Christopher Mills.
Published and copyright Oxford University Press 2012.
My story begins in the 1630s. It is the time of the Ottoman Empire.
Hazarfen Ahmed Chalebi is a clever young man of those days.
He lives in the district of Ushkudar in Istanbul.
Every morning Hazarfen sits near the Bosphorus Strait. He looks at the tall tower in the district
of Galota across the water. The Galota tower is taller than all the buildings near it.
Simit! Would you like a simit? A man near Hazarfen calls. He has some tasty Turkish bread
rings on his head. But Hazarfen doesn't answer.
Every morning the man cries. Would you like a simit?
But Hazarfen never answers. He doesn't hear or see the man. He is dreaming.
In his dream, he is flying over the Bosphorus with the seabirds.
One day I want to look down from the sky on Istanbul.
He thinks. I want to fly across the strait with you, birds. But how?
You
Chapter 2 Drawings from Italy
Weeks later, Hazarfen is near the Bosphorus again.
Again he is looking carefully up at the seabirds in the sky.
These days he is making some big wings in his workshop. He needs some help with the design.
Hazarfen! Someone calls. Hazarfen sees his friend, Mehmed, with a second man.
He goes over and says hello to the two of them.
Hazarfen, this is my brother Ali. Mehmed says, he's got some drawings for you from Italy.
They are old drawings of birds' wings by Leonardo da Vinci, Ali says.
Ah yes, I know Leonardo's work. Hazarfen says.
Let's see them then.
Ali gives the drawings to Hazarfen. He looks at them for a minute.
Interesting, Hazarfen says. Then he gives them back.
Thank you Ali.
Days later, in Hazarfen's workshop, my wings are ready.
Hazarfen tells his friends. Let's see you fly then.
You fly then, Mehmed cries.
Your brother, Lagari wants to fly too. I...
Chapter 3.
Two Galota.
Hazarfen doesn't fly. He falls.
Mehmed hears a big crash and a cry from the foot of the hill.
He goes quickly down the hill to his friend.
Hazarfen is lying under his wings. Ali is next to him.
His legs broken. Ali says.
No, it isn't.
Hazarfen answers.
My wings are broken, but I'm okay. This time.
Mehmed cries. But, what about next time?
Be careful, my friend. You don't want to die.
They take the broken wings back to Hazarfen's workshop.
Now what? Ali asks.
I understand more.
The design of my wings needs to be different.
Bigger and better. But that can wait.
Hazarfen says.
Right now, I must go and see the district chief of Galota.
Galota?
Mehmed cries.
Why?
I want to fly from the Galota tower, so I need his permission for that.
Forget it.
The district chief never asks people into his office.
Ali says.
Let's see.
Hazarfen cries.
Come on!
And he and his friends take a boat across the Bosphorus.
The three friends walk from the Bosphorus up to the Galota tower.
Two tall guards stop them when they arrive.
What do you want?
One of them asks.
We want to see the district chief of Galota.
Hazarfen answers.
Ali and Mehmed are afraid.
What's your name?
The guard asks.
Hazarfen amed chilebi.
Ah, the brother of the rocket maker.
Lageri Hassan chilebi.
All Istanbul is talking of him.
The guard says.
Yes, Hazarfen answers tiredly.
So, can I see the district chief?
He asks the man.
Wait!
The guard says.
And he goes into the district chief's office.
Chapter 4.
A brother's help.
Sometime later, the guard takes Hazarfen to the district chief's office.
Mehmed and Ali wait at the door.
The district chief listens to Hazarfen's story.
Very well, he smiles.
You can fly from the tower.
But be careful.
Don't fall and die.
No, district chief.
Hazarfen answers.
And I'd like to see your brother.
Tell him.
Yes, district chief.
Hazarfen says.
I got permission.
Hazarfen laughs when he comes out into the street.
Good!
Ali cries happily.
What now?
Mehmed asks.
I must visit Lageri.
Hazarfen says.
So, Hazarfen visits his older brother.
Lageri is working on his rocket.
When Hazarfen arrives.
Nice design.
Hazarfen says.
Yes, Lageri answers.
Perhaps early next year, I can fly up into the sky in it.
What about you?
Me, brother.
I want to fly across the sky.
With my wings later this year.
So, it's a race.
Lageri laughs.
Yes, Hazarfen smiles.
But listen.
The district chief of Galata wants to see you.
Right.
Well, thank you for your visit.
Good luck with your wings, Hazarfen.
Good luck with your rocket, Lageri.
And Hazarfen leaves.
Two weeks later, Hazarfen's new wings are ready.
Now I can fly from Galata to Uskudar.
He cries.
Wait!
You must ask the Sultan's permission for that, I think.
Mehmed says.
And the Sultan says no to most people when they ask for things.
So, what can I do?
Hazarfen cries.
Listen.
These days, the district chief of Galata
talks about your brother a lot.
Now the Sultan's interested in him too.
Perhaps Lageri can ask the Sultan for a meeting.
Ali says.
So, Hazarfen goes and speaks to his brother again.
Yes, I can ask the Sultan.
Lageri smiles.
But, he can always say no to a meeting.
To a meeting.
Chapter 5
What does the Sultan say?
So, Lageri speaks to the Sultan.
And the Sultan says yes to a meeting.
Seven days later, Hazarfen goes to the palace.
He walks past the higher Sophia.
He is nervous.
Please give me permission.
He thinks.
Near the blue mask, he is more nervous.
Please say yes.
He thinks.
Hazarfen stops near the palace.
The Sultan can, of course, say no.
Or worse, he can say, kill that man.
He thinks.
I'm Hazarfen Ahmed Chelebi.
The Sultan wants to see me.
He tells the palace guard.
The man goes in.
Hazarfen waits.
He is very nervous now.
After an hour, the guard comes back.
Come with me.
He says to Hazarfen.
Hazarfen bows very nervously when he meets the Sultan.
Your Highness.
I want to fly across the Bosporus.
He says.
The Sultan smiles.
Ah, yes.
Your Lagari Hassan's brother, he says.
Yes, your Highness.
Hazarfen answers.
Then he asks for the Sultan's permission.
You have it.
The Sultan says.
You must fly across the Bosporus tomorrow.
With a good wind, Hazarfen says.
But without it, what then your Highness?
You must ask God for a wind.
The Sultan smiles.
Your Highness.
A vizier says quietly.
People can walk with their legs.
But we don't have wings.
Is a flying man good in God's eyes?
Listen.
The Sultan answers.
We can think of new things with our brains.
And our brains come from God.
The first flying man must be an Ottoman, I say.
Yes, your Highness.
The vizier says.
But he looks angrily at Hazarfen.
That evening, Hazarfen is not happy.
There's no wind.
He tells Mehmed and Ali.
Chapter 6 Hazarfen's Reward
The next morning, there is lots of wind.
Hazarfen stands happily with his wings at the top of the Galota tower.
Suddenly, he jumps.
He's falling!
People cry.
But he is not falling.
He is flying with his big white wings over the houses of Galota.
Hazarfen's friends Mehmed and Ali.
Run with the people down the streets to the Bosphorus.
Hazarfen flies out over the water.
I'm flying!
He cries.
People can fly!
He lands across the street in Ushkudar, a happy man.
The next day, the Sultan has a meeting with his viziers at the palace.
People can fly!
He cries excitedly.
And the first flying man is an Ottoman.
That's good for our empire.
Hazarfen is a good man.
Hazarfen needs a reward.
But your highness.
The vizier, nearest to him, says.
Flying men can land in our palaces and kill us.
They're dangerous.
The Sultan thinks about this.
Yes, I see.
Perhaps you're right.
So, what must we do with Hazarfen then?
He asks.
Kill him, the vizier answers.
I can't do that.
But the Sultan cries.
Then, exile him.
The vizier says.
So, the Sultan calls Hazarfen Ahmed Chilebi to the palace.
He gives a reward of a thousand gold coins to him.
Then, he exiles him to Algeria.
Hazarfen says goodbye to his brother and his friends.
He leaves Istanbul that evening.
After that, he can fly over the Bosphorus with the birds in his dreams.
But he can never go back to Istanbul again.
And what about Legari and his rocket?
You ask.
Well, perhaps one day I can tell you that story too.